Wi-Fi security and why it is important to implement and be aware of how to use secure Wi-Fi.
Basically Wi-Fi has replaced cables.
In most cases so before when Wi-Fi weren't that popular.
Almost every device computer and so on were connected to the Internet through cables.
But now as mobile devices and instant the thing is starting to get more and more popular we are seeing
that Wi-Fi is basically replacing all the Wired installations that we have and most computers are also
now getting switched over to laptops meaning that they will most likely also be run on wireless.
Of course there are still stays stationary computers and so on which use cables but will you get the
point.
So now no Wi-Fi has become such a public thing.
We are facing our security threat that we did not have with the cable because when we were using cables
only we had an easier time controlling who had access to our network because basically they needed to
plug our cable in their device that then connected to our switch hub or router in order to be connected
to a network.
But with Wi-Fi basically every device that is within range of our Wi-Fi signal will be able to see this
Wi-Fi.
And if it is not protected in the right way they will be able to connect UID and start collecting packages
and information from their network.
So the most important thing when it is when we're talking about Wi-Fi and wireless security is the wireless
encryption because when if you're just transferring packages over an open network with no encryption
you can imagine that everyone that is within the signal range of this way if I could just plug in and
connect to this Wi-Fi and then then they will be able to collect your packages and because you did not
encrypt the trafficked that you send between you and the router or hub or switch you will basically
be giving them all the information to read because it will be in plaintext.
So that is why open Wi-Fi networks are very bad and you should avoid them at all cost if you can in
future.
Later we will look at weapons and other approaches that you can use to still connect to your local open
Wi-Fi at Starbucks and still be protected.
But here we will focus on our setup that we will have at home or at work.
So we have these different protocols that we can use to encrypt our traffic and the access to our Wi-Fi.
The first one is WIPP where equal and privacy.
That was the original protocol used when Wi-Fi first came along and you should never ever use this protocol
at all because it is very easily broken.
There are some flaws in the mathematics of this encryption protocol that makes it very easy for people
to crack the encryption key and thereby decrypt the traffic that you are sending and get access to you
to Wi-Fi.
Then we have the W EPA which is wildfire protected access.
That was a temporary enhancement of the original protocol and it provided some more security.
But again it has inherited some of the security flaws that were in the original protocol.
And this is now also something that I don't recommend you to use.
And if you see a network that is having this or your home network is only secured with this protocol
you should try at all cause to either switch to this protocol and if your device does not support that
I hope it does because every new device does so.
But if you have a variable device that does not support this then I recommend to replace that device
so that you can use the Wi-Fi protect access to protocol because that is currently the most secure one
to use when talking about Wi-Fi security and traffic encryption.
It replaces the original WPA protocol and it uses a as advanced encryption standard which is a much
more secure way of encrypting your data and network.
Again it is not that this is bullet proof and that it will not ever be hacked.
There are some ways it is very difficult.
But again nothing is totally secure.
So it's not like when you're using this you can say OK I'm secure if I'm for more everything.
Some type in some future there will be some hacks and found some flaws in this as well.
And then this will become depreciated as well but currently this is good to go and you can use this.
And there are already coming some new protocols along there are the WPA tree which which is even more
secure protocol but that is not as widely used as this is.
So again be sure that you are using this on your network when you are setting it up and then you should
be in a safe manner when it comes to encrypting your unit again and traffic.
But there are also other things that we can do to secure our wireless network because wireless networks
as mentioned is based on signals and the great thing about wireless network is that we can connect any
of our devices as long as we are within range of our signal.
But at this also a security risk because it is not only us who can connect.
It is also everybody else who is within this range that is able to connect and start to try Craig or
network or collect packages from our network.
So besides using encryption to secure network you should also be aware of how strong of a signal you're
using and where you are placing your access point because people from outside your house or office can
actually access your network as well as you have might seen if you're traveling through a city with
a lot of buildings.
If you go to your mobile and look at what Wi-Fi is available you will see a very long list because there
are so many access points who is just broadcasting the signal out because they are.
The signal is so strong in most newer devices.
So it is important that you are aware of where you place your device and the strength of the signal
that you're sending because if you look at this picture right here let's imagine we are in this office
building right here and this is our wireless router.
This is sending out a signal in every direction with a very strong strength meaning that a malicious
user could sit in this car for example and try to crack our network if we had an open network he could
just log on.
Even though that he is sitting on the street within his car you can actually have the same benefit as
if you were sitting next to you in your own office place but also if your building is placed near to
a park or other public place fuel could actually just be sitting outside chilling with a computer and
they could try to break into your network and that is of course something that we want to avoid.
Even though we have password and encryption sit on or known at work it is still a very low security
risk that people can unharmed they sit and try different approaches to break unit.
So what you should be aware of is how you place your device and what strength.
So imagine that we had this office building right here and we had the two top floors.
So there is no reason that we have our network being available at the first floor of this building.
So what we could do is to first move the router because instead of placing it at our first floor when
we have the above floor as well meaning that we will broadcast to places that we do not own and is not
part of our office we will just move the RA rah up to the second floor which we are also owning.
And then we will adjust the signal so that it is only broadcasting to the very end of our building and
you can do that by simply just taking our wireless network card or laptop or mobile and then just go
to the first corner of your office and then see do I have a signal right here.
If the signal is very strong then there is a very good chance that on the other side of your wall or
below the floor there is a signal as well.
So you should try to minimize the strength of the signal in the corners because then you know that there
is a very low possibility that people from outside your actual physical space can connect to you to
your wireless network.
So this was a short introduction to Wi-Fi security.
We will not go into that with the encryption algorithms because they will be for another tool.
This is the network basics.
So we just covered the basic aspects of this Wi-Fi security and in it coming lectures we will look at
how we can use different approaches to secure our communication when sitting on open networks by using
weapons and we will also look at how we can set up different tunnels and how we can use SSA age to connect
security to over the Internet.